# Sonar Classification using Tensorflow Extended (TFX)
The dataset used for this project is the [Connectionist Bench (Sonar, Mines vs. Rocks) Data Set
](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Connectionist+Bench+%28Sonar%2C+Mines+vs.+Rocks%29) originally obtained from UCI Machine Learning Repository.  

For the purpose of this assignment, the dataset has been preloaded into a .csv file, which contains a total of `208 records` with `60 independent variables` and `1 target variable` identifying the object (Rock vs Mine).  

Of the 208 records, 
- `111 records` are of `60 sonar signals patterns` bouncing off a metal cylinder with the label `Mine`, and 
- `97 records` are of `60 sonar signals patterns` bouncing off rocks with the label `Rock`.  

The objective of the project is to perform a binary classification with the use of an artificial neural network, to identify if the `60 sonar signals patterns` belong to an object `Rock` or `Mine`.


## Usage

The project can be executed either *interactively* or *locally* via a `LocalDagRunner` instance.  
To execute the project locally, the notebook has to be executed at least once as it will generate all the `.py` scripts needed to run the TFX pipeline.  

For EDA workflow, the `pandas-profiling` report will be generated and saved in the `pipeline` folder as `profile_report.html`.  
TFX does include a pipeline component `StatisticsGen`, which helps to visualise the data, and the the profile report generated is meant to provide additional information if required.  

### Run the TFX pipeline interactively  
The project can be run interactively using the notebook `main.ipynb` located in the folder `pipeline`.  
All the `.py` scripts needed to run the project will be generated by the notebook.  

The instructions to run the notebook are contained within the notebook itself.


### Run the TFX pipeline in a local environment  
The files requried to run the TFX pipeline interactively are located in the scripts `local_runner.py` and `pipeline.py`.  

`pipeline.py` defines the pipelines by TFX, and `local_runner.py` is the entry point which will start up the `LocalDagRunner` that runs the pipeline locally.  

To execute the pipeline, navigate to the `pipeline` folder and run the command:  

```shell
python local_runner.py
```

## References

**Dataset**
- [Connectionist Bench (Sonar, Mines vs. Rocks) Data Set](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Connectionist+Bench+%28Sonar%2C+Mines+vs.+Rocks%29)

**Tensorflow**
- [TensorFlow Extended (TFX) docs](https://www.tensorflow.org/tfx)
